EVM RPC canister documentation (#2404)
dfinity/portal: docs/developer-docs/integrations/ethereum/evm-rpc.md

# EVM RPC canister

To use the EVM RPC canister, you can import it into your project's `dfx.json` file:

```json
{
 "canisters": {
   "evm_rpc": {
     "type": "custom",
     "candid": "https://github.com/internet-computer-protocol/ic-eth-rpc/releases/latest/download/evm_rpc.did",
     "wasm": "https://github.com/internet-computer-protocol/ic-eth-rpc/releases/latest/download/evm_rpc_dev.wasm.gz",
     "remote": {
       "id": {
         "ic": "a6d44-nyaaa-aaaap-abp7q-cai"
       }
     }
   }
 }
}
```

## Supported RPC methods

> - `eth_gasPrice`: Queries the current ETH gas price.
> - `eth_getLogs`: Queries the logs of a specified block or transaction.
> - `eth_getBlockByNumber`: Queries information about a given block.
> - `eth_getTransactionReceipt`: Queries details about a submitted transaction.
> - `eth_feeHistory`: Queries the historical fee data to estimate gas prices for transactions.
> - `eth_sendRawTransaction`: Submits a signed transaction to the Ethereum network.
> - `eth_getTransactionCount`: Queries the number of transactions for a specified address.
> - `eth_call`: Calls a smart contract function without changing the blockchain's state.
> - `eth_getStorageAt`: Queries the value of a storage position at a given address.
> - `eth_estimateGas`: Provides an estimate for the gas consumption of a transaction before it is mined.
> - `eth_blockNumber`: Queries the number of the most recent block.
> - `eth_getCode`: Queries the bytecode of a specified contract.

Reviewer: We currently only have first-class support for six of these methods, while the rest can be accessed with the `request` method. Here's a suggestion to give a sense for the distinction:

```suggestion
- `eth_feeHistory`: Queries the historical fee data to estimate gas prices for transactions.
- `eth_getLogs`: Queries the logs of a specified block or transaction.
- `eth_getBlockByNumber`: Queries information about a given block.
- `eth_getTransactionCount`: Queries the number of transactions for a specified address.
- `eth_getTransactionReceipt`: Queries details about a submitted transaction.
- `eth_sendRawTransaction`: Submits a signed transaction to the Ethereum network.

Other JSON-RPC methods (including those specific to non-Ethereum networks) may be accessed using the canister's `request` method.
```

## Supported RPC providers

- Alchemy: `https://eth-mainnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/`
- Ankr: `https://rpc.ankr.com/eth/`
- BlockPI: `https://ethereum.blockpi.network/v1/rpc/`
- Cloudflare Web3: `https://cloudflare-eth.com/v1/mainnet/`
- Public Node: `https://ethereum.publicnode.com`

View the [full list of RPC providers for each EVM network.](https://chainlist.org/)

### Specifying an RPC provider

> To specify the RPC provider you'd like to use, change the `Url` value:

Reviewer: It's also possible to specify RPC providers in other ways. Here's the Candid interface:

```candid
type JsonRpcSource = variant {
  Chain : nat64;
  Service : record { hostname : text; chainId : opt nat64, headers: opt vec (text, text) };
  Provider : nat64;
  Custom : record { url : text; headers : vec (text, text) };
};

request : (
  source : JsonRpcSource,
  jsonRequest : text,
  maxResponseBytes : nat64
) -> (
  Result<text, RpcError>
);
```

I suppose we could directly include this in the documentation as a reference point for various use cases.

Author: Added this to the doc

```
dfx canister call evm_rpc --wallet $(dfx identity get-wallet) --with-cycles 600000000 request '(variant {Url="https://ethereum.publicnode.com"},"{\"jsonrpc\":\"2.0\",\"method\":\"eth_gasPrice\",\"params\":[],\"id\":1}",1000)'
```

### Registering your own provider

To register your own RPC provider, you can use the following command:

```

> dfx canister call evm_rpc register_provider '(record { chain_id=1; base_url="https://cloudflare-eth.com"; credential_path="/v1/mainnet"; cycles_per_call=10; cycles_per_message_byte=1; })'

Reviewer: These examples on the readme were a bit outdated; I'll go through and double-check / update these in a PR which merges into this one.

Reviewer: PR: https://github.com/dfinity/portal/pull/2413
